Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia






			
			

Main Page			
				From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia				
								Jump to navigation
				Jump to search
				

Welcome to Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.
5,662,885 articles in English

Arts
Biography
Geography
History
Mathematics
Science
Society
Technology
All portals


From today's featured article


The meteorological history of Hurricane Gordon spanned thirteen days and included six landfalls. The hurricane formed near Panama in the southwestern Caribbean on November 9, 1994. As a tropical depression it brushed Nicaragua and spent several days in the waters off the country's coast. Heading north and then northwest, Gordon made two more landfalls, on eastern Jamaica and eastern Cuba, while delivering tremendous rains to western Hispaniola. After it made its fourth landfall crossing the Florida Keys, it spent a few days as an unusual hybrid of a tropical and a subtropical system in the Gulf of Mexico. It reclaimed its fully tropical form and made another landfall, across the Florida peninsula, and continued into the Atlantic Ocean, where it strengthened to a Category 1 hurricane. It briefly wandered close to North Carolina, but then headed south, weakening into a minor tropical storm before its final landfall on Florida's east coast. (Full article...)
Recently featured:

Fantasy Book
Harry R. Truman
King Island emu



Archive
By email
More featured articles


Did you know...



Tony Appleton in 2010


... that despite having no official role, the British town crier Tony Appleton (pictured) is internationally famous for his announcements of royal events such as the birth of Prince Louis of Cambridge?
... that members of the Yellow Sand Society believed that "magic and incantations" would make them immune to bullets?
... that Indian actor Ranbir Kapoor played a character based on Arjuna and Michael Corleone in the 2010 political thriller Raajneeti?
... that despite gathering an emperor, six kings, and numerous princes at the Conference of Dresden, Napoleon was largely preoccupied with planning his invasion of Russia?
... that Juliet Appiah is the first Ghanaian police officer to be awarded a FIFA refereeing badge?
... that according to the book Passing on the Right, conservative professors in the US often have to employ "coping strategies that gays and lesbians have used in the military and other inhospitable work environments"?
... that Tom Hom was the first non-Caucasian elected to the San Diego City Council?
... that in Philippine mythology, anito spirits can harm human beings by "greeting" them?

Archive
Start a new article
Nominate an article





In the news



Janez Janša


The Slovenian Democratic Party, led by Janez Janša (pictured), wins the most seats in the parliamentary election.
Volcán de Fuego in Guatemala erupts, killing more than 80 people.
Giuseppe Conte becomes Prime Minister of Italy, leading a coalition government after protracted negotiations.
Pedro Sánchez becomes Prime Minister of Spain after Mariano Rajoy loses a vote of no confidence.

Ongoing:

Turkish currency and debt crisis
Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola outbreak


Recent deaths:

Red Schoendienst
Kate Spade
J. B. Munro
Eunice Lam




Nominate an article


On this day...

June 7


Mariano Moreno


1692 – An estimated 7.5 MW earthquake caused Port Royal, Jamaica, to sink below sea level and killed approximately 5,000 people.
1788 – Citizens of Grenoble threw roof tiles onto royal soldiers, an event sometimes credited as the beginning of the French Revolution.
1810 – Journalist Mariano Moreno (pictured) published Argentina's first newspaper, the Gazeta de Buenos Ayres.
1938 – Second Sino-Japanese War: The Chinese Nationalist government destroyed dikes holding the Yellow River in an attempt to halt the rapid advance of Japanese forces, causing a flood that killed at least 400,000 people.
1998 – Three white supremacists murdered African American James Byrd Jr. by chaining him behind a pickup truck and dragging him along an asphalt road in Jasper, Texas.
Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire (b. 1757) ·  Joseph von Fraunhofer (d. 1826) ·  Prince (b. 1958)
More anniversaries:

June 6
June 7
June 8



Archive
By email
List of historical anniversaries





Today's featured picture



Self-Portrait with Halo and Snake is an 1889 oil on wood painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, which represents his late Brittany period in the fishing village of Le Pouldu in northwestern France. It shows Gauguin against a red background with a halo above his head and apples hanging beside him as he holds a snake in his hand while plants or flowers appear in the foreground. The religious symbolism and the stylistic influence of Japanese wood-block prints and cloisonnism are apparent. The work is one of more than 40 self-portraits he completed. It is held at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.
Painting: Paul Gauguin
Recently featured:

Taagepera Church
The Surrender of Breda
Black-tailed godwit



Archive
More featured pictures






Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.


Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:

Commons
Free media repository

MediaWiki
Wiki software development

Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination

Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals

Wikidata
Free knowledge base

Wikinews
Free-content news

Wikiquote
Collection of quotations

Wikisource
Free-content library

Wikispecies
Directory of species

Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities

Wikivoyage
Free travel guide

Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus


Wikipedia languages

This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,662,885 articles.  Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
More than 1,000,000 articles:

Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
日本語
Polski
Русский
Svenska
Tiếng Việt
中文


More than 250,000 articles:

العربية
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Català
Čeština
Euskara
فارسی
한국어
Magyar
Norsk
Português
Română
Srpski
Srpskohrvatski
Suomi
Türkçe
Українська


More than 50,000 articles:

Bosanski
Български
Dansk
Eesti
Ελληνικά
English (simple form)
Esperanto
Galego
עברית
Hrvatski
Latviešu
Lietuvių
Norsk nynorsk
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
ไทย



Complete list of Wikipedias







					
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=840611669"					
								
							
		






